---
layout: page
title: 2019/2020 - Timeless Knowledge
---

### A Few Important Questions: Skills and Knowledge.

The majority of your life will be spent working. There are countless ways to burn your years away - countless jobs, career-paths, books to read, and tasks to do. But only a few of them will really be worth your time. How do you decide what to work on then? How do you make sure that, when you're older, you won't feel like you aged *wrong* and spent time working on useless things.



You want to pick up responsibility for a bunch of important outcomes. 
You want to have the knowledge and skills to be able to make the right decisions.
Which means you can't just learn useless, decorative skills that have no real-world weight.
Obediently following instructions, getting good grades in artificial exams, following the consensus - these are all decorative.
In fact, they all represent domestication and obedience. 
Signalling obedience can sometimes be necessary, like getting your first job... (maybe).

Instead, you should spend time on skills that are real. 
Skills that help make important, wise decisions and allow you to produce value from scratch, in small elite teams.
I'm not interested in specialised, one-off skills that can only be useful with an entire infrastructure support system around me. 
That seems too dependent on employment and obedience.
I'm interested in skills that allow self-ownership and the ability to work with a small, elite group of entrepreneurs and investors.
Skills that are valuable in startups, hedge funds, small R&D teams and for self-employment.

Interestingly, the anti-image is just as powerful to motivate you. Write about that too.

Timelessness, i guess, is another quality you're looking for.
Things that will stay true 30 years into the future, so you can compound your knowledge.
30 years into the future, when another few batches of arrogant bastards like you show up, how will you compete?

So yeah: make a checklist: 
* is it TIMELESS? Can you compound your knowledge and understanding in this field over decades? Does it have timeless, core principles?
* is it INDEPENDENT (able to be useful and close to the money in small teams, in entrepreneurial ventures? or do you need an 
entire damn support structure?? is it something that allows you to create value almost from scratch in a small team?)
* is it CRAFT-LIKE, almost ELEGANT? are there noticeable SKILL-GAPS? Does it reward a bit of creativity, or contrarian thinking? Is it also visibly hard for some idiots? As with almost all crafts, are there noticeable skill-gaps betweeen the best and the mediocre in the field?


<br>
##### 1. Writing
Become a skilled writer with clarity and depth. Cut through the useless noise to get to the central principles. 
Write essays; explore interesting, idiosyncratic topics.
BAD: Learn all about bad writing. What do bad writers do? Fill their sentences with fluff and unneccesarily big words because
they have nothing of value to actually say. Talk about boring topics, never diverge into interesting observations. No surprises.

##### 2. SICP 
Read and master all the content in The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. Learn how to be a 'great hacker'.
Build clean, elegant systems.
BAD: Learn what crappy hackers do. Learn all the ways they fail to hide complexity, and all the ways that screw technical decisions.
Look around and try to work with some really crappy code. Really feel how tedious and unnecessarily complex it is. 
Read spaghetti code and lasagne code. Read code written by shitty developers with no clarity of thought. Read code written by 
developers who were rushed too quickly. Read your own code and criticize it.


##### 3. R&D - Probability, Information, ML
Build a deep, intuitive understanding of randomness, uncertainty, information and prediction - from a technical, quant. perspective.
Learn how to use the techniques appropriately and quickly in R&D. Cut to the core of the material and really make an effort at
getting the intuition behind the techniques. Try to understand ML from a Probabilistic and Information-Theoretic lens. 
And learn all the real-world applications.
BAD: Learn how all the idiots get tricked by statistics and machine learning. (e.g. social scientists, policy makers...etc)
Find out all the ways liars can manipulate statistical + ML models. 

##### 4. Investing, VC, £££, Entrepreneurship, Strategy
Build a deep understanding of investing + allocation of productive capital in a free market. 
Valuation (Damodaran, McKinsey book), Startups & Venture Capital (Zero to One, Paul Graham's essays, Tim Ferriss' interviews)
Hedge Funds (Taleb, Spitznagel, Dalio, Thorp, Munger, Buffett).
BAD: And, learn how bad investors don't manage their risk. Learn how they lose money, and all the dumb mistakes they make.
See how many idiots still buy the efficient-market hyp. Learn about all the market inefficiencies.

##### 5. Policy, Risk, Governance
Understand and study all the trade-offs and risks associated with large-scale, centralised decisions in different fields. 
Be an educated voter and citizen, basically. Political, Medical, Economic decisions are all important. 
And sometimes, naïve idiots introduce massive amounts of systemic risk while thinking they're 'heroic' (usually lefties). 
Understand all of it.
BAD: Don't be like those naive idiots who don't understand 2nd order consequences. Those idiots don't take systemic risk seriously.
They're usually the same idiots who say things like 'communism sounds like a good idea bro, we're so virtuous, let's try it'.
And they they get culled in the Gulags first, but thats OK, since it wasn't real communism.
Or things like 'Brexit is bad and racist hurr durr look at me I'm so virtuous', but then you ask them why, and what benefits the EU
brings, they only list economic benefits. Cowards. Willing to sell sovereignity becaues apparently the EU is 'great'.
Maybe these conformist morons would even sell sovereignity to the US, if they offered us 6% extra GDP? 
I've found that these are the same idiots who tend to mention phrases like 'but that wasn't real communism maaan', or 'hurr durr pay gap',
without looking at any statistics in depth. Cowards who tend to sell sovereignity and freedom for comfort. 
'OH the Gulags? Oh the Nazi concentration camps? Systemic risk? Corruption coupled with mass surveilance?
Naaaa duuude. Those things will *never* happen here.' - said the domesticated, 
coward who sold freedom for comfort, a few years before being sent to a neo-Gulag by a totalitarian, orwellian government, in, say 2025.

